all right cool thanks for making it even though it's like
the last talk of the day so i'm excited to talk
a little bit about how we use at proto for funding impact
and resource allocation and luckily i'm actually not here by myself
but there's also shafi in the back and adam
here so if you have additional questions later especially on the technical
side both of them can definitely help you more than i can
because i'm actually a political economist by now i also have
acquired some technical knowledge but it's not my expertise but it
is theirs cool and also i will in this talk sometimes say
we are building this we are building that it is not just
kind of the hypersets foundation that i'm steward
ing but there are other organizations like gainforest and my earth
that are building with us these impact funding mechanisms and hypers
ets is one of the primitives that we are steward
ing so that's why the hypersets collective is the
word that we use for like the organizations and the people the
contributors who help build this i deeply believe that right now in
the current conditions what we choose to fund is the world that
we are creating and the exciting thing is that at proto has
a lot to say about this and this is in that way
i think one of the most important use cases where we can
apply at proto too why this this is important is because there
is something that we collectively value that doesn't have a normal
uh business model and this is actually a lot of things that
we care about digital public goods open source software regional land projects
um science journalism community organizing those are actually the things that make
a good life and we are actually not really funding them they
are all underfunded if we would put more resources into this
we would actually create a better world um how i am thinking
about this is that when we make decisions together what we want
to fund we have at least these three layers we have funding
mechanisms this can be grants milestone bounties price competitions crowd
funding etc etc so there are different funding mechanisms then there are
different decision making mechanisms that can be a jury in a foundation
that can be also in crowdfunding kind of just like the
crowd deciding it can be any democratic mechanism deliberative mechanism it
can be just a funder saying it's my money i
'm the dictator about this money that's also fine but these
these are different decision making mechanisms which i think now is an
exciting part that we will see a lot of innovation in the
future because with like kind of human ai collaboration how we can
make decisions in the future will really change and this also interacts
with the context layer because now the ais can read for us
much more context than what we can so from my perspective sometimes
i say it's like the dream of a political scientists come
true because you can come up for funding mechanism decision making mechanisms
in the past the voters just didn't behave the way you
wanted them to behave they were not informed they didn't actually
do what would be necessary to actually reach good decisions so the
context layer that's where at proto comes in because context like
the context for an ai is what do we put into the
decision making mechanism so in the case of regenerative land project
this is for example satellite imagery this is by acoustics data
but also community input and expert input so in the case when
there's a region of land project i grew up in a
small town of 300 people in germany if there's a
if there's a project the people in the town they know
if it's good or if it's just some bullshit carbon
project that is not actually helping stewarding nature so why
do we not just ask the people that already know and then
yes let's add some technical data from satellite imagery that support
that that um that opinion or if they actually disagree with each
other then we can also have a conflict resolution mechanism where like
okay we see there's some kind of a conflict um but
this is exciting because at photo makes it easy to collect this
context and it makes it possible that we are not just collecting
the data but we are also collecting who said it because that
is important when we analyze it because it depends on your your
reputation if this is if this really um should be considered in
the decision making process or not so this is all the kind
of a loop because the project actually create the work the impact
then there will be third party measurements and evaluations community input all
of that um and so if we do that loop over and
over we can also over time improve that decision making mechanism um
because this is not a static system this is ideally a self
-improving system similar to how we now train ais
to become better over time with this context and the tools that
we have here now we can also over time make better decisions
um that what we have today here's today context is frag
mented data silo trust signals accumulate that's exactly what we
see from social media but it's the same in funding data
if you have like a crowdfunding platform you have um the
foundation that raises like that gives us out grants with data so
these are all data silos and the projects have to put in
the data over and over again so we think we can change
that and we are collaborating with a bunch of projects here that
are working on this we are trying to kind of help build
one context that different platforms can tap into and if you don
't recognize all these logos we will get into that this is
where i normally spend a lot of time on um which is
nice because here i don't um but all of these reasons
why you want decentralized social media also apply to why do you
want to have decentralized information for decision-making mechanisms that concern
the public good um another one is in the ideal case we
will actually create a lot of um network effects so network effects
if there are more funders obviously that's good for projects
in this network because when you have your data more funders
can see the data but also for projects it's good if
you have a lot of evaluators because you will get better
information to the funders and i mean it's only good
for the good projects not for the other ones um but there
's everybody benefits for more um actors contributing to this network and
what we of course want is that the value compounds across the
network and not inside of a platform another reason is that when
we think about the projects and funders and evaluators today
this is how we might think about it but already today you
don't write your grant application yourself anymore you actually let it
let somebody write it in ai and the funders they get
so many applications they have to use ai to to sort them
and find out like at least pre-select some of
them and then they make decisions on what to fund so this
is the word that that we probably have today and i think
at proto makes it possible that um we put like shared observ
able records in the middle and i think this is really important
to make this system accountable um to uh to what we as
humans actually still want to fund this is kind of an overview
of like the shift that we want to um get to what
we believe is really a modern funding stack and it's all
that that i already introduced it is users control their data we
have many evaluators we have many interoperable funding mechanisms
it is about narratives verified data and trust-based funding not
just about i have really nice pictures um it is about human
air collective intelligence and we are building self-reinfor
cing um systems here all right um switching gears a little bit
this was like the the high level where do we want to
go this is a little bit of how so a hyper cert
um is kind of a living record of work so it starts
with just a record who did what when and where this can
be for the past or for the future so it can be
a proposal as well this is kind of the record here and
in that protocol of course it's just like one record and
in our case that is an activity claim then the evaluate is
all the data that can be added to that to really make
sense of it and this can be self-evaluations
or additional data from third parties but that's why we say
it's a living record because it over time more and more
information about this work will accumulate and that makes it possible to
really make good funding decisions funding decisions either as grants because you
also observe the the other um work that they have done in
the past you have the reputation or you have outcome-based
funding where you see somebody has actually proves that their work was
meaningful and that's why they get funding um afterwards all right
let's get into use cases um my earth is a um
a project that basically wants to fund the regeneration and
that means funding a lot of projects and when i say a
lot of projects we actually need to fund hundreds of thousands of
projects in the world that are really connected to the land that
they are stewarding and this is not just we like
we cannot scale the projects up because then the projects actually lose
the connection with the land so this is really a challenge of
a kind of decentralized sense making system how do we actually know
where all the projects are um and they are taking on this
challenge they are using hyperserts to record the data
and add kind of the other data and stay interoperable
with other platforms that also work in um in this space they
will have a crowdfunding campaign in june i believe one
second so in june um a crowdfunding campaign for a
hundred uh land projects with a matching fund of 500 000 so
this really will get adoption um latest then maybe some other platforms
um uh do already some prototypes before but that's our really
the first big use case a hundred projects will be on board
ed um and then all the communities will join to um to
fund these projects um another project gainforest and shafi
the is the co-founder of that in the back um
also works in the same space and that's exciting because gain
forest also works on um how do we help communities deploy technology
like bioacoustics to give them tools to prove what
they have done and so when communities that are part of the
crowdfunding campaign for my earth go to gainforest and work
with them and create data then this data is recorded on a
proto and shows up on the crowdfunding platform for my earth
um the time is not working anymore okay cool yeah let me
know if i when i have like five minutes cool um so
here we really see already why the usefulness like the useful
ness of the interoperability between platforms um gainforest also
is building um a platform to help the communities fundraise directly
this is called boomy certs so we have here bo
omy certs where you can see um kind of the the
different communities and you can fund fund them directly here so a
boomy cert is a hyper cert um and you have basically
like a very familiar interface but it's based on the at
proto shared shared shared records um another use case protocol apps so
i actually started the project about hyperserts at protocol
apps then spun it out to the hyperserts foundation
um protocol apps will actually use hyperserts in their
platform or like use it right now already if you apply to
a grant for pl research you actually create a hypersert
s and actually i because we have like how much time time
do we second 17 17 okay then actually because uh the bo
omy certs platform here can also show it to you directly
there's for example bees and trees and then you can see
the site boundaries where it actually is you can donate to it
um and so this is still in better but this is like
one of the platforms then when we have uh protocol labs you
can actually see that um i can sign in to the grants
platform here with my proto account which is cool and then start
an application application and here you see it was saved as a
hypersert on their personal data server um then another um
application is summer simocracy simocracy is the idea that um
the decision making mechanisms uh it's like painfully painful and
it costs a lot of time so what if we would have
just a digital twin for ourselves who acts on our behalf to
make to have all the discussions and make the decisions for us
so we ran a experiment at funding the commons in san
francisco two weeks ago where there it was i don't
know who knows frontier towers but it's basically a co-
working place there are multiple floor leads that organize the co-
working space and we distributed five thousand us dollars two things that
happened in the co-working space and the way it was
done is all of them had like a 30-minute structured
interview that created their ai agent and then the and anybody could
propose things every proposal was a hypersert then the agents
were actually discussing among themselves what should be funded with a complicated
mechanism that's called the s process which is a really cool
process where you aggregate different marginal utility curves which most people cannot
do um but it is actually really like in theory like an
amazing process that's used by the survival and flourishing fund
and um then the result was um like we then compared the
result to what the humans actually would have decided themselves and there
was not a clear this is clearly better but it was a
reasonable thing that the ai agents actually decided and the exciting part
of this is this is like a really bare bare model of
this and it will just improve over time and that's the
cool thing that's like we we have a model that kind
of works already but it only has like possibilities to improve so
that's democracy and um so we had the frontier towers and
you can actually see all the the the ai agents um and
you can also chat with them to get to know them they
have like a constitution values etc um another application and this actually
comes out of the idea of um if you have a conference
like this we have the beautiful science of like who funded this
this conference but actually in the background there are lots more contributors
um that are not on there like the volunteers and so can
we actually when we have work in a hypersert can
we show not only um the financial contributors but also the in
-kind contributors volunteers and this is in that way just a
different view on um kind of the uh the work and the
contributors so when we take for example a github repo
here and i paste it in here we can fetch all the
contributors and i guess this is actually the repo for the website
so we can see i mean this is like i don't
say this is the actual contribution because this is just based on
the github commits but you can see who actually contributed
to it and if you now say actually we all know that
uh boris actually didn't do it uh then we can
decrease boris uh that's right so and now you can
think of okay what is the community mechanism to actually do this
right and you can also say now okay actually the financial contributors
are also meaningful let's add them as well and um then
i mean there are some settings to make it beautiful you can
have like a background et cetera et cetera you can share it
anywhere but you can also think of like every open source project
could have that on their website with a donate button and if
you donate you also come to the um to the hyperboard
so i think these are some of the use cases
some of the use cases and um now i'll switch
gears again except maybe pause here if somebody has a question in
between um a question about whether you have looked at value flows
value flows yeah i mean if there's a specific solution i
think there are like quite a few projects that have thought about
how how like value flows um and um also like source cred
and others there have been like projects for um attribution um
like and i think this is something where we want to really
focus on the context layer and then lots of different attribution
mechanisms can be built on top of it because we are not
the ones who can say you are this community should use this
it needs to come out of the community
um how the the lexicons and records work in that
way or um like how is an organization yeah like how this
kind of thing that wants to be funded yeah so this this
would be for example like this would be a specific um platform
that is built on top of this so then you would talk
about more earth gain forest democracy and how they would implement it
because we are just implementing kind of the lexicons that
can be used by them and in my earth case for example
in the first round so it's basically a hundred projects will
be selected by like more classical selection panel or like actually like
together with partner organizations um that there's a minimum quality that
we already know about the 100 projects and then um on the
um on the side the projects can add more of their own
data um then we will work with like trusted evaluators that
we know that can also add data so this is in that
way the choice of more earth how they want to use the
the hyper search standard that we are proposing so it's not
that we like it's kind of the platform's choice yeah
but happy to chat more about it um afterwards cool um so
changing gears a little bit into what is what is the underlying
technology that we have because we had some challenges from the user
experience where how do we actually build for land stewards how do
we build not only for land stewards in the u.
s and europe but actually for answers in the global majority and
how do we explain to them what at proto is or can
we just avoid that um and so what you see here is
basically the um we have of course here defined the lexic
ons for the projects etc we have the personal data servers but
we also have also something called the certified group service um i
will go into that in a second what that is um this
is something that has not been built but the project was originally
very web3 token centric um and there might be still
a use case where you want to add kind of an on
-chain component to it when you for example similar to carbon
credits when you want to make sure that somebody really can prove
that they funded exactly how much of an impact i think we
can also find solutions that are more at proto-native
um but potentially as a part where um on-chain data
might be useful um and then yeah the platforms i have talked
about already um something else um that we um built is kind
of a login experience that is uh just passwordless um because
the user experience from my earth when you go to my earth
you log in and it tells you something about at proto it
tells you something about a different service that you don't know
you actually already use lose users and so what we did is
you basically sign up you put in your email you get a
one-time password you put it in you you have signed
up you have signed up and you have a user account and
then later on you can set your your at proto handle you
can set your password afterwards um so this is kind of uh
certified um yeah it's just like the login it's not
from the ui it's not very segments um from the
login it's not very exciting because from the ui it
's just like very very basic um but it's not something
that is that easy actually to do um in the at proto
ecosystem and this is uh something where if you want to know
more about the technical details uh talk to adam it really is
about reducing the friction during onboarding um and what you saw
actually on this slide if somebody comes to any of these platforms
they still can just sign in with at proto or blue sky
with their normal um normal way but they can also use our
passwordless login cool certified group service and
i will switch briefly so i think i can also show it
to you actually i will show you the
exciting uh way to log in
with otp so i think i don
't know if there has been an easier login
to the atmosphere before but here you can see there are different
groups there are some groups that have been and some groups that
i have publicly acknowledged and i've just created a lot of
test groups and some others that i have not publicly acknowledged so
publicly it's not known that i'm part of it um
here the episodes foundation and kind of the very common uh common
ui as well um i can just like switch to the
episodes foundation blocked into the profile i can see the members i
have an activity log what happened in the group i can add
different users in a very familiar way as well and that's
kind of the certified group service and this is in that way
there's an overlap with what we heard today i don't
know who was there from britney britney um so and
we will check um how we have built it how they have
built it but there's definitely something where i'm very excited
about how we can allow groups to have accounts because in our
use case when we have land stewards they have projects they might
have volunteers the volunteers the volunteers take pictures of um tree planting
and they should publish that for the organization and they should potentially
not be able to interact with all the other data entries so
this is kind of the the interesting role-based access control
that we can implement here uh...
and two minutes all right um this is how we implemented
the the group service um so when like the group has a
vanilla pds and that also means they can transfer the data
whenever they want to anywhere else um and the user when they
want to write into the group repo just ask the plc
registry because the group is also registered as a normal did um
and in the plc registry there's a service that the
um the user that knows okay this is a group service that
i have to ask the group service checks can this user act
on behalf of this group if so then the group service has
the app password to actually write into the group service and then
it's also recorded who did what for on behalf of the
group and this is interesting for role-based access control but
also for so many more use cases if we have private spaces
then who is the owner of the private space maybe it should
be a group and maybe the governance mechanism should be in addition
to the group service cool if you want to build with hyp
erserts we have built a couple of things the scaffold
app that's easy to use as an example there's a
cli you can also just point your agent to hypers
can.
dev agents there's an indexer who indexes our data
i introduced certified as an easy login experience but you can also
use any other and hyperscan.
dev gets you to an overview of everything that happens in the
hyperserts ecosystem and additional tools also like badges and
identity link which potentially links like a web3 wallet to your
identity that i haven't really talked about but all of that
you can also find over on hyperscan yeah and we
are here to talk if you want to build with us please
reach out here on the bottom or just talk to us right
after this or while we are here at the conference everywhere i
'm based in general in berlin but traveling a bunch then
we have london and zurich paris we have
a developer in bhutan and then the also the more earth
crew that we are building very closely with they're also kind
of global um yeah thank you